# Notes 220115

The underlying API will be the 'generalised' Java2D (AWT vs HTML Canvas) used in in|fibrillae.
There will be corresponding user facing types, e.g. `Ex[Shape]` for something akin to the Java2D shape interface.
A canvas could either automatically redraw itself when the expression changes, or be animated by a timer
(in that case perhaps we don't need to listen for expression updates, saving some performance?)

Let's say eventually we have `trait Canvas extends Widget` (or `Component`) (in LucreSwing). Then this would have
explicit dimension parameter, mouse and keyboard interaction, and a way to set the paint function. Is the paint
function a pure expression? A function from time to expression? Do we allow imperative (`Act`) elements? Looking
at in|fib, the paint function definitely is imperative, updating state variables etc. But this could also be a
separate function called when using an animation timer.

```scala
trait Widget
trait Ex[+A]

trait Op
trait Shape
trait Paint

trait Canvas extends Widget {
  var width : Ex[Int]
  var height: Ex[Int]
  
  var contents: Ex[Seq[Op]]
  
  var autoRepaint: Ex[Boolean]
  
  var animation: Ex[Double]
}

case class Rect(x: Ex[Double], y: Ex[Double], width: Ex[Double], height: Ex[Double])
  extends Ex[Shape]
  
case class Color(argb: Ex[Int]) extends Ex[Paint]
case class SetPaint(p: Ex[Paint]) extends Ex[Op]
case class Fill(shape: Ex[Shape]) extends Ex[Op]

trait Example {
  def canvas: Canvas

  implicit def constInt   (i: Int   ): Ex[Int   ]
  implicit def constDouble(d: Double): Ex[Double]
  implicit def liftSeq[A](xs: Seq[Ex[A]]): Ex[Seq[A]]
  
  canvas.contents = Seq[Ex[Op]](
    SetPaint(Color(0xFFFF0000)),
    Fill(Rect(10, 10, 80, 40))
  )
}
```

Alternatively, we choose a more declarative approach rather an "ops", more like an SVG?

Reference: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG

> Colors can be applied to all visible SVG elements, either directly or via `fill`, `stroke`, and other properties. 

Like `Rect(10, 10, 80, 40, fill = Color(0xFFFF0000))` ? Using groups would be a middle way between more imperative and
more declarative, like SuperCollider's `Pen.use(...)`. Groups could use 'style' and 'class' attributes, and
presentation attributes such as `transform`, `fill`, `stroke`.

> In the future, any new properties that apply to SVG content will not gain presentation attributes. Therefore, 
> authors are suggested to use styling properties, either through inline ‘style’ properties or style sheets, rather 
> than presentation attributes, for styling SVG content.

----

## Useful links

- https://github.com/nwillc/ksvg "Kotlin Multiplatform SVG DSL"
